Unix Rz and sz support XMODEM, YMODEM, and ZMODEM transfers via
the dial-in controlling TTY (or PTY) port.  Client rz/sz
programs in crzsz.zip should be used for dial-out applications.

Also included is the "undos" program which converts between
Unix, MSDOS, CP/M, and Macintosh text file end of line conventions.

The contents of this archive can be uploaded to a remote Unix or
Xenix system by ZCOMM or Professional-YAM using the supplied
zupl.t script.  Connect to your Unix/Xenix system, select an
empty directory, and then give the YAM/ZCOMM command: "source
zupl.t".  This will upload minirb.c, compile it, and then use
minirb to bootstrap upload the rz/sz files.

Once these files are on your Unix system, you can type "make".
The Makefile will list the various systems it knows how to
compile the programs for, and the command to do so (e.g.,
"make bsd").

The Makefile is self explanatory; just say "make".

Unregistered users can obtain support on a consulting basis.
Please call 503-614-0430 to arrange consulting support.

Registered users with support options can obtain support for
problems not involving terminal servers or third party software
using email or the regular Omen Technology phone number.

Rz and sz work best with comm programs that properly support
ZMODEM command and file AutoDownload (Pro-YAM and ZCOMM).

The "GSZ" shareware program allows ZMODEM file transfers with
DOS comm programs.  GSZ provides a "mini term function" that
supports ZMODEM AutoDownload.  GSZ (part of GSZ.ZIP) and ZCOMM
(ZCOMMEXE.ZIP, ZCOMMDOC.ZIP, ZCOMMHLP.ZIP) are available on
TeleGodzilla and other fine bulletin boards.

This software may be freely used to support file transfer
operations to or from duly licensed Omen Technology products.
This includes DSZ, GSZ, ZCOMM, Professional-YAM and PowerCom.
Institutions desiring to use rz/sz this way should add the
following to the sz compile line: -DCOMPL
Programs based on stolen or public domain ZMODEM materials are
not included.  Use with other commercial or shareware programs
(Crosstalk, Procomm, etc.) REQUIRES REGISTRATION.

Unregistered copies of rz and sz mail messages indicating
their use after successful file transfers.  Registration
eliminates this code.

Rz ans Sz are Copyrighted shareware programs.  Commercial Use of
these programs is subject to licensing conditions detailed in
the sz.c source code.  "Commercial Use" includes use of this
program to transfer files to/from any commercial or shareware
program not published by Omen Technology INC.  Please print the
"mailer.rz" file, fill out the form and return same with your
registration.

1.xx and 2.xx versions of rz and sz (April 1988) are Public Domain,
but lack recent enhancements and bug fixes.

The Man pages are formatted for those without Unix nroff.  For
best results, use less(1) (available on comp.sources.misc) as
your manual page reader.  The troff sources for the rz/sz man pages
are included with copies of Unix Professional-YAM, and are provided
to registered sites as described in the mailer.rz file.

Please check our web page www.omen.com for the latest updates.

FTP access is available at ftp.cs.pdx.edu pub/zmodem
directory.  This account has the latest and greatest selection
of OMEN files available for FTP.  The files in this direcotry
are uploaded with ZMODEM directly from the Omen home system,
preserving modification dates and file contents.

VMS systems are now supported with native VMS versions in
RZSZ.TLB.  The rz and sz in RZSZ.TLB support wild cards and
VMS record types.

In order for us to handle problem reports, we must have the
exact error messages displayed by Professional-YAM.  If
transfers do not work at all, we must have complete results of
the sz -T test procedure!  If you are not using an Omen
Technology product to talk to rz/sz and have not registered
rz/sz, contact the author of the communications program you have
purchased for support.  Some heavily marketed programs do not
properly support the XMODEM, YMODEM, and/or ZMODEM protocols.

The Omen Technology Code in unmodified copies of rz/sz 3.54
is Y2K Compliant.  When compiled by a Y2K compliant
compiler, linked with a Y2K compliant library, executed on a
Y2K compliant system, and used with Y2K compliant clients,
rz/sz 3.54 is Y2K compliant.  Consulting is available to
investigate Y2K issues with third party software.  Omen
Technology cannot accept liability for Y2K problems caused
by third party software.


Chuck Forsberg WA7KGX     caf@omen.COM     http://www.omen.com
   Omen Technology Inc      "The High Reliability Software"
Author of YMODEM, ZMODEM, Professional-YAM, ZCOMM, GSZ and DSZ
TeleGodzilla BBS: 503-617-1698  FTP: ftp.cs.pdx.edu pub/zmodem
POB 4681 Portland OR 97208     503-614-0430   FAX:503-629-0665

